usage-rules/nebulex.md, before:

# Nebulex Project-Specific Usage Rules

## Project Overview

Nebulex is a fast, flexible, and extensible caching library for Elixir that
provides:
- Multiple cache adapters (local, distributed, multilevel, partitioned).
- Declarative decorator-based caching inspired by Spring Cache Abstraction.
- OTP design patterns and fault tolerance.
- Telemetry instrumentation
- Support for TTL, eviction policies, transactions, and more.

## Architecture Patterns

### Cache Definition

- Caches MUST be defined using `use Nebulex.Cache` with `:otp_app` and
  `:adapter` options.
- Caches should be started in the application supervision tree, not manually.
- Use descriptive cache module names that indicate their purpose
  (e.g., `MyApp.LocalCache`, `MyApp.UserCache`).

**Example**:

```elixir
defmodule MyApp.Cache do
  use Nebulex.Cache,
    otp_app: :my_app,
    adapter: Nebulex.Adapters.Local
end
```

### Adapter Pattern

- All adapters MUST implement the `Nebulex.Adapter` behaviour.
- Adapters MUST implement `c:init/1` returning
  `{:ok, child_spec, adapter_meta}`.
- Adapter functions MUST return `{:ok, value}` or `{:error, reason}` tuples.
- Use `wrap_error/2` from `Nebulex.Utils` to wrap errors consistently.
- Implement optional behaviours as needed: `Nebulex.Adapter.KV`,
  `Nebulex.Adapter.Queryable`, etc.
- Leverage `use Nebulex.Adapter.Transaction` and similar modules for default implementations.

### Command Pattern

- Use `defcommand/2` macro from `Nebulex.Adapter` to build public command
  wrappers.
- Use `defcommandp/2` for private command wrappers.
- Command functions automatically handle telemetry, metadata, and error
  wrapping.
- The first parameter to commands should always be `name`
  (the cache name or PID).
- The last parameter should always be `opts` (keyword list).

**Example**:

```elixir
defcommand fetch(name, key, opts)
defcommandp do_put(name, key, value, on_write, ttl, keep_ttl?, opts), command: :put
```

## Return Value Conventions

### Tuple Returns

- Read operations that can fail MUST return `{:ok, value}` or
  `{:error, %Nebulex.KeyError{}}` for missing keys.
- Write operations MUST return `{:ok, true}` for success or `{:ok, false}` for
  conditional failures (e.g., `put_new`).
- Delete operations MUST return `:ok` regardless of whether the key existed.
- NEVER return bare `:error` atoms; always use `{:error, reason}` tuples.

### Bang Functions

- Provide bang versions (`!`) of functions that unwrap `{:ok, value}` or raise
  exceptions.
- Bang functions MUST use `unwrap_or_raise/1` from `Nebulex.Utils`.
- Functions that return `:ok` should have bang versions that also return `:ok`.
- Functions that return `{:ok, boolean}` should have bang versions that return
  the boolean.

**Example**:

```elixir
def fetch!(name, key, opts) do
  unwrap_or_raise fetch(name, key, opts)
end

def put!(name, key, value, opts) do
  _ = unwrap_or_raise do_put(name, key, value, :put, opts)
  :ok
end
```

## Options and Validation

### Options Handling

- Use `Nebulex.Cache.Options` module for option validation.
- Call `Options.validate_runtime_shared_opts!/1` to validate runtime options.
- Use `Options.pop_and_validate_timeout!/2` for TTL and timeout options.
- Use `Options.pop_and_validate_boolean!/2` for boolean options.
- Use `Options.pop_and_validate_integer!/2` for integer options.
- Validate options as early as possible, preferably at the beginning of the
  function.

**Example**:

```elixir
def put(name, key, value, opts) do
  {ttl, opts} = Options.pop_and_validate_timeout!(opts, :ttl)
  {keep_ttl?, opts} = Options.pop_and_validate_boolean!(opts, :keep_ttl, false)

  do_put(name, key, value, :put, ttl, keep_ttl?, opts)
end
```

### Shared Options

- All cache functions should accept `:telemetry`, `:telemetry_event`, and
  `:telemetry_metadata` options.
- Document adapter-specific options clearly in the module documentation.

## Decorators

### Decorator Usage

- Use `use Nebulex.Caching` to enable decorator support in a module.
- Configure default cache via `use Nebulex.Caching, cache: MyCache`.
- Always use decorators on functions, not on function heads with multiple
  clauses.
- Prefer module captures over anonymous functions for better performance:
  `match: &__MODULE__.match_fun/1`.
- Avoid capturing large data structures in decorator lambdas.

**Invalid**:

```elixir
@decorate cacheable(key: id)
def get_user(nil), do: nil

def get_user(id) do
  # logic
end
```

**Valid**:

```elixir
@decorate cacheable(key: id)
def get_user(id) do
  do_get_user(id)
end

defp do_get_user(nil), do: nil
defp do_get_user(id) do
  # logic
end
```

### Decorator Options

- Use `:key` option to specify explicit cache keys; avoid relying solely on
  default key generation.
- Use `:references` for implementing cache key references and memory-efficient
  caching.
- Use `:match` option to conditionally cache values
  (e.g., `match: &match_fun/1`).
- Use `:on_error` option to control error handling (`:raise` or `:nothing`).
- Specify TTL via `:opts` option: `opts: [ttl: :timer.hours(1)]`.

### `cacheable` Decorator

- Use `@decorate cacheable` for read-through caching patterns.
- Combine with `:references` option when the same value needs multiple cache
  keys.
- Use `:match` function with references to ensure consistency
  (e.g., validating email matches).

**Example**:

```elixir
@decorate cacheable(key: id)
def get_user(id) do
  Repo.get(User, id)
end

@decorate cacheable(key: email, references: &(&1 && &1.id), match: &match_email(&1, email))
def get_user_by_email(email) do
  Repo.get_by(User, email: email)
end

defp match_email(%{email: email}, email), do: true
defp match_email(_, _), do: false
```

### `cache_put` Decorator

- Use `@decorate cache_put` for write-through caching patterns.
- Always use `:match` option to conditionally update cache
  (e.g., only on `{:ok, value}`).
- Avoid using `cache_put` and `cacheable` on the same function.

**Example**:

```elixir
@decorate cache_put(key: user.id, match: &match_ok/1)
def update_user(user, attrs) do
  user
  |> User.changeset(attrs)
  |> Repo.update()
end

defp match_ok({:ok, user}), do: {true, user}
defp match_ok({:error, _}), do: false
```

### `cache_evict` Decorator

- Use `@decorate cache_evict` for cache invalidation.
- Use `key: {:in, keys}` to evict multiple keys at once.
- Use `:all_entries` option to clear the entire cache.
- Use `:before_invocation` option to evict before function execution.
- Use `:query` option for complex eviction patterns based on match
  specifications.

**Example**:

```elixir
@decorate cache_evict(key: {:in, [user.id, user.email]})
def delete_user(user) do
  Repo.delete(user)
end

@decorate cache_evict(all_entries: true)
def clear_all_users do
  Repo.delete_all(User)
end

@decorate cache_evict(query: &__MODULE__.query_for_tag/1)
def delete_by_tag(tag) do
  # Delete logic
end

def query_for_tag(%{args: [tag]}) do
  [{:entry, :"$1", %{tag: :"$2"}, :_, :_}, [{:"=:=", :"$2", tag}], [true]]
end
```

## Testing Patterns

### Test Structure

- Use `deftests do` macro for shared test suites that can run across multiple
  adapters.
- Structure tests with `describe` blocks grouping related functionality.
- Use context fixtures with `%{cache: cache}` for test setup.
- Test both successful and error scenarios for each function.

**Example**:

```elixir
defmodule MyAdapterTest do
  import Nebulex.CacheCase

  deftests do
    describe "put/3" do
      test "puts the given entry into the cache", %{cache: cache} do
        assert cache.put(:key, :value) == :ok
        assert cache.fetch!(:key) == :value
      end

      test "raises when invalid option is given", %{cache: cache} do
        assert_raise NimbleOptions.ValidationError, fn ->
          cache.put(:key, :value, ttl: "invalid")
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

### Test Assertions

- Use `assert cache.function() == expected_value` for exact equality.
- Use `assert_raise ErrorType, ~r"message pattern"` for exception testing.
- Test edge cases: `nil`, boolean values (`true`, `false`), empty collections.
- Test both normal and bang (`!`) versions of functions.
- Avoid pattern matching in assertions when the full value is known
  (use direct equality).

**Invalid**:

```elixir
assert {:ok, value} = cache.fetch(:key)
```

**Valid**:

```elixir
assert cache.fetch(:key) == {:ok, expected_value}
```

## Telemetry

### Telemetry Events

- Emit telemetry events for all cache commands when `:telemetry` option is
  `true`.
- Use `:telemetry_prefix` option to customize event names
  (defaults to `[:cache_name, :cache]`).
- Provide comprehensive metadata: `:adapter_meta`, `:command`, `:args`,
  `:result`.
- Support custom `:telemetry_event` and `:telemetry_metadata` options per
  command.

### Telemetry Best Practices

- Use `Nebulex.Telemetry.span/3` for span events (start, stop, exception).
- Include measurements like `:duration` and `:system_time`.
- Document all telemetry events in module documentation with measurement and
  metadata keys.
- Provide example telemetry handlers in documentation.

## Error Handling

### Error Types

- Use `Nebulex.Error` for general cache errors.
- Use `Nebulex.KeyError` for missing key errors.
- Use `Nebulex.CacheNotFoundError` for dynamic cache lookup failures.
- Wrap adapter-specific errors using `wrap_error/2` from `Nebulex.Utils`.

### Error Wrapping

- Adapter functions should wrap errors consistently using `wrap_error/2`.
- Include relevant context in error metadata (`:key`, `:command`, `:reason`).
- Preserve original error information in the `:reason` field.

**Example**:

```elixir
def fetch(_adapter_meta, key, opts) do
  case do_fetch(key) do
    {:ok, value} -> {:ok, value}
    {:error, :not_found} -> wrap_error Nebulex.KeyError, key: key
    {:error, reason} -> wrap_error Nebulex.Error, reason: reason, command: :fetch, key: key
  end
end
```

## Performance Considerations

### Key Generation

- Provide explicit keys in decorators when possible; avoid relying on default
  key generation.
- For complex keys, use module captures: `key: &MyModule.generate_key/1`.
- Keep captured data in decorator lambdas small; fetch large configs inside
  functions.

### Reference Keys

- Use cache key references (`:references` option) to avoid storing duplicate
  values.
- Store references in a local cache and values in a remote cache (e.g., Redis)
  for optimization.
- Set TTL for references to prevent dangling keys
- Use external references with `keyref(key, cache: AnotherCache)` for
  cross-cache references.

### Optimization

- Use `Stream` for large result sets instead of loading all data at once.
- Leverage `Task.async_stream/3` for concurrent cache operations when
  appropriate.
- Set appropriate TTL values to balance freshness and performance.
- Use `put_all/2` for batch operations instead of multiple `put/3` calls.

## Documentation Standards

### Module Documentation

- Start with a clear `@moduledoc` explaining the purpose and main features,
  except the modules using `NimbleOptions`, since they are documenting options.
- Options documented using `NimbleOptions` should provide functions to insert
  that documentation into the module docs. Therefore, it is not required to
  document an option in the `moduledoc` or in the function `@doc` if it is
  already inserted using `NimbleOptions`. For example,
  `#{Nebulex.Cache.Options.start_link_options_docs()}`.
- Options docummented using
- Include usage examples in module documentation.
- Document all compile-time options.
- Document all runtime shared options.
- Provide telemetry event documentation with measurements and metadata.
- The maximum text length is 80 characters, and you should aim to adhere to this
  limit. However, there are special cases where exceeding it is acceptable. For
  example, you may exceed the limit for a link (e.g., ["my link"](http://github.com/elixir-nebulex))
  or a code snippet that only exceeds the limit by a few characters (e.g., 1 or 2).
  If a code snippet exceeds the 80-character limit by more than 1 or 2 haracters,
  format it using the Elixir formatter.
- When you make a change to the documentation, use `mix docs` to validate it.

### Function Documentation

- Use `@doc` for all public functions.
- Include `@typedoc` for all custom types.
- Provide examples in function documentation using doctests when applicable.
- Document all options with descriptions and default values.
- Group related functions using `@doc group: "Group Name"`.
- The maximum text length is 80 characters, and you should aim to adhere to this.
  limit. However, there are special cases where exceeding it is acceptable. For
  example, you may exceed the limit for a link (e.g., ["my link"](http://github.com/elixir-nebulex))
  or a code snippet that only exceeds the limit by a few characters (e.g., 1 or 2).
  If a code snippet exceeds the 80-character limit by more than 1 or 2 haracters,
  format it using the Elixir formatter.
- When you make a change to the documentation, use `mix docs` to validate it.

### Code Comments

- Avoid obvious comments; code should be self-explanatory.
- Use comments for complex algorithms or non-obvious business logic.
- Mark internal functions with `@doc false` or `@moduledoc false`.
- Use `# Inline common instructions` followed by
  `@compile inline: [function_name: arity]`.
- The maximum text length is 80 characters, use multiple lines if the comment.
  exceeds the limit.

## Naming Conventions

### Modules

- Adapter modules: `Nebulex.Adapters.*` (e.g., `Nebulex.Adapters.Local`).
- Cache modules: `<App>.Cache` or `<App>.<Context>Cache`
  (e.g., `MyApp.Cache`, `MyApp.UserCache`).
- Behaviour modules: `Nebulex.Adapter.<Feature>` (e.g., `Nebulex.Adapter.KV`).

### Functions

- Use descriptive function names: `fetch/2`, `put/3`, `delete/2`, `has_key?/1`.
- Bang versions: `fetch!/2`, `put!/3`, `delete!/2`.
- Private helpers: prefix with `do_` (e.g., `do_fetch/3`, `do_put/7`).
- Predicate functions: suffix with `?` (e.g., `has_key?/1`, `expired?/2`).

### Variables

- Cache instance: `cache`.
- Adapter metadata: `adapter_meta`.
- Options: `opts`.
- Keys: `key` or `keys`.
- Values: `value` or `values`.
- TTL: `ttl`.

## Code Organization

### File Structure

- Main cache API: `lib/nebulex/cache.ex`.
- Adapter behaviour: `lib/nebulex/adapter.ex`.
- Adapter implementations: `lib/nebulex/adapters/<adapter_name>.ex`.
- Cache features: `lib/nebulex/cache/<feature>.ex`.
- Decorators: `lib/nebulex/caching/decorators.ex`.
- Mix tasks: `lib/mix/tasks/<task_name>.ex`.

### Module Grouping

- Keep related functionality together (e.g., all KV operations in `Nebulex.Cache.KV`).
- Use nested modules for options, helpers, and internal implementation details.
- Separate public API from internal implementation.

## Common Pitfalls to Avoid

- **Do NOT** use decorators on multi-clause functions without proper wrapper
  functions.
- **Do NOT** forget to validate options at the beginning of functions.
- **Do NOT** return inconsistent error types; always use tuples or raise
  exceptions via bang functions.
- **Do NOT** capture large data structures in decorator lambdas.
- **Do NOT** forget to handle `nil`, boolean, and edge case values in tests.
- **Do NOT** use `cache_put` and `cacheable` decorators on the same function.
- **Do NOT** forget to evict cache references when using `:references` option;
  use TTL or explicit eviction.
- **Do NOT** implement adapter callbacks without proper error wrapping.
- **Do NOT** skip telemetry support in adapter implementations.
- **Do NOT** use pattern matching in test assertions when the full value is
  known.

## Backward Compatibility

- Maintain backward compatibility when adding new options (use default values).
- Deprecate old APIs before removal; provide migration path in documentation.
- Follow semantic versioning strictly: major version for breaking changes.
- Test against multiple Elixir and OTP versions in CI.

## Dependencies

- Keep dependencies minimal and well-justified.
- Prefer standard library solutions over external dependencies.
- Use optional dependencies for non-core features.
- Document all dependencies in README with their purpose.

Commit message:

[#249] Remove default transaction implementation from core library

usage-rules/nebulex.md, after:

# Nebulex Project-Specific Usage Rules

## Project Overview

Nebulex is a fast, flexible, and extensible caching library for Elixir that
provides:
- Multiple cache adapters (local, distributed, multilevel, partitioned).
- Declarative decorator-based caching inspired by Spring Cache Abstraction.
- OTP design patterns and fault tolerance.
- Telemetry instrumentation
- Support for TTL, eviction policies, transactions, and more.

## Architecture Patterns

### Cache Definition

- Caches MUST be defined using `use Nebulex.Cache` with `:otp_app` and
  `:adapter` options.
- Caches should be started in the application supervision tree, not manually.
- Use descriptive cache module names that indicate their purpose
  (e.g., `MyApp.LocalCache`, `MyApp.UserCache`).

**Example**:

```elixir
defmodule MyApp.Cache do
  use Nebulex.Cache,
    otp_app: :my_app,
    adapter: Nebulex.Adapters.Local
end
```

### Adapter Pattern

- All adapters MUST implement the `Nebulex.Adapter` behaviour.
- Adapters MUST implement `c:init/1` returning
  `{:ok, child_spec, adapter_meta}`.
- Adapter functions MUST return `{:ok, value}` or `{:error, reason}` tuples.
- Use `wrap_error/2` from `Nebulex.Utils` to wrap errors consistently.
- Implement optional behaviours as needed: `Nebulex.Adapter.KV`,
  `Nebulex.Adapter.Queryable`, etc.

### Command Pattern

- Use `defcommand/2` macro from `Nebulex.Adapter` to build public command
  wrappers.
- Use `defcommandp/2` for private command wrappers.
- Command functions automatically handle telemetry, metadata, and error
  wrapping.
- The first parameter to commands should always be `name`
  (the cache name or PID).
- The last parameter should always be `opts` (keyword list).

**Example**:

```elixir
defcommand fetch(name, key, opts)
defcommandp do_put(name, key, value, on_write, ttl, keep_ttl?, opts), command: :put
```

## Return Value Conventions

### Tuple Returns

- Read operations that can fail MUST return `{:ok, value}` or
  `{:error, %Nebulex.KeyError{}}` for missing keys.
- Write operations MUST return `{:ok, true}` for success or `{:ok, false}` for
  conditional failures (e.g., `put_new`).
- Delete operations MUST return `:ok` regardless of whether the key existed.
- NEVER return bare `:error` atoms; always use `{:error, reason}` tuples.

### Bang Functions

- Provide bang versions (`!`) of functions that unwrap `{:ok, value}` or raise
  exceptions.
- Bang functions MUST use `unwrap_or_raise/1` from `Nebulex.Utils`.
- Functions that return `:ok` should have bang versions that also return `:ok`.
- Functions that return `{:ok, boolean}` should have bang versions that return
  the boolean.

**Example**:

```elixir
def fetch!(name, key, opts) do
  unwrap_or_raise fetch(name, key, opts)
end

def put!(name, key, value, opts) do
  _ = unwrap_or_raise do_put(name, key, value, :put, opts)
  :ok
end
```

## Options and Validation

### Options Handling

- Use `Nebulex.Cache.Options` module for option validation.
- Call `Options.validate_runtime_shared_opts!/1` to validate runtime options.
- Use `Options.pop_and_validate_timeout!/2` for TTL and timeout options.
- Use `Options.pop_and_validate_boolean!/2` for boolean options.
- Use `Options.pop_and_validate_integer!/2` for integer options.
- Validate options as early as possible, preferably at the beginning of the
  function.

**Example**:

```elixir
def put(name, key, value, opts) do
  {ttl, opts} = Options.pop_and_validate_timeout!(opts, :ttl)
  {keep_ttl?, opts} = Options.pop_and_validate_boolean!(opts, :keep_ttl, false)

  do_put(name, key, value, :put, ttl, keep_ttl?, opts)
end
```

### Shared Options

- All cache functions should accept `:telemetry`, `:telemetry_event`, and
  `:telemetry_metadata` options.
- Document adapter-specific options clearly in the module documentation.

## Decorators

### Decorator Usage

- Use `use Nebulex.Caching` to enable decorator support in a module.
- Configure default cache via `use Nebulex.Caching, cache: MyCache`.
- Always use decorators on functions, not on function heads with multiple
  clauses.
- Prefer module captures over anonymous functions for better performance:
  `match: &__MODULE__.match_fun/1`.
- Avoid capturing large data structures in decorator lambdas.

**Invalid**:

```elixir
@decorate cacheable(key: id)
def get_user(nil), do: nil

def get_user(id) do
  # logic
end
```

**Valid**:

```elixir
@decorate cacheable(key: id)
def get_user(id) do
  do_get_user(id)
end

defp do_get_user(nil), do: nil
defp do_get_user(id) do
  # logic
end
```

### Decorator Options

- Use `:key` option to specify explicit cache keys; avoid relying solely on
  default key generation.
- Use `:references` for implementing cache key references and memory-efficient
  caching.
- Use `:match` option to conditionally cache values
  (e.g., `match: &match_fun/1`).
- Use `:on_error` option to control error handling (`:raise` or `:nothing`).
- Specify TTL via `:opts` option: `opts: [ttl: :timer.hours(1)]`.

### `cacheable` Decorator

- Use `@decorate cacheable` for read-through caching patterns.
- Combine with `:references` option when the same value needs multiple cache
  keys.
- Use `:match` function with references to ensure consistency
  (e.g., validating email matches).

**Example**:

```elixir
@decorate cacheable(key: id)
def get_user(id) do
  Repo.get(User, id)
end

@decorate cacheable(key: email, references: &(&1 && &1.id), match: &match_email(&1, email))
def get_user_by_email(email) do
  Repo.get_by(User, email: email)
end

defp match_email(%{email: email}, email), do: true
defp match_email(_, _), do: false
```

### `cache_put` Decorator

- Use `@decorate cache_put` for write-through caching patterns.
- Always use `:match` option to conditionally update cache
  (e.g., only on `{:ok, value}`).
- Avoid using `cache_put` and `cacheable` on the same function.

**Example**:

```elixir
@decorate cache_put(key: user.id, match: &match_ok/1)
def update_user(user, attrs) do
  user
  |> User.changeset(attrs)
  |> Repo.update()
end

defp match_ok({:ok, user}), do: {true, user}
defp match_ok({:error, _}), do: false
```

### `cache_evict` Decorator

- Use `@decorate cache_evict` for cache invalidation.
- Use `key: {:in, keys}` to evict multiple keys at once.
- Use `:all_entries` option to clear the entire cache.
- Use `:before_invocation` option to evict before function execution.
- Use `:query` option for complex eviction patterns based on match
  specifications.

**Example**:

```elixir
@decorate cache_evict(key: {:in, [user.id, user.email]})
def delete_user(user) do
  Repo.delete(user)
end

@decorate cache_evict(all_entries: true)
def clear_all_users do
  Repo.delete_all(User)
end

@decorate cache_evict(query: &__MODULE__.query_for_tag/1)
def delete_by_tag(tag) do
  # Delete logic
end

def query_for_tag(%{args: [tag]}) do
  [{:entry, :"$1", %{tag: :"$2"}, :_, :_}, [{:"=:=", :"$2", tag}], [true]]
end
```

## Testing Patterns

### Test Structure

- Use `deftests do` macro for shared test suites that can run across multiple
  adapters.
- Structure tests with `describe` blocks grouping related functionality.
- Use context fixtures with `%{cache: cache}` for test setup.
- Test both successful and error scenarios for each function.

**Example**:

```elixir
defmodule MyAdapterTest do
  import Nebulex.CacheCase

  deftests do
    describe "put/3" do
      test "puts the given entry into the cache", %{cache: cache} do
        assert cache.put(:key, :value) == :ok
        assert cache.fetch!(:key) == :value
      end

      test "raises when invalid option is given", %{cache: cache} do
        assert_raise NimbleOptions.ValidationError, fn ->
          cache.put(:key, :value, ttl: "invalid")
        end
      end
    end
  end
end
```

### Test Assertions

- Use `assert cache.function() == expected_value` for exact equality.
- Use `assert_raise ErrorType, ~r"message pattern"` for exception testing.
- Test edge cases: `nil`, boolean values (`true`, `false`), empty collections.
- Test both normal and bang (`!`) versions of functions.
- Avoid pattern matching in assertions when the full value is known
  (use direct equality).

**Invalid**:

```elixir
assert {:ok, value} = cache.fetch(:key)
```

**Valid**:

```elixir
assert cache.fetch(:key) == {:ok, expected_value}
```

## Telemetry

### Telemetry Events

- Emit telemetry events for all cache commands when `:telemetry` option is
  `true`.
- Use `:telemetry_prefix` option to customize event names
  (defaults to `[:cache_name, :cache]`).
- Provide comprehensive metadata: `:adapter_meta`, `:command`, `:args`,
  `:result`.
- Support custom `:telemetry_event` and `:telemetry_metadata` options per
  command.

### Telemetry Best Practices

- Use `Nebulex.Telemetry.span/3` for span events (start, stop, exception).
- Include measurements like `:duration` and `:system_time`.
- Document all telemetry events in module documentation with measurement and
  metadata keys.
- Provide example telemetry handlers in documentation.

## Error Handling

### Error Types

- Use `Nebulex.Error` for general cache errors.
- Use `Nebulex.KeyError` for missing key errors.
- Use `Nebulex.CacheNotFoundError` for dynamic cache lookup failures.
- Wrap adapter-specific errors using `wrap_error/2` from `Nebulex.Utils`.

### Error Wrapping

- Adapter functions should wrap errors consistently using `wrap_error/2`.
- Include relevant context in error metadata (`:key`, `:command`, `:reason`).
- Preserve original error information in the `:reason` field.

**Example**:

```elixir
def fetch(_adapter_meta, key, opts) do
  case do_fetch(key) do
    {:ok, value} -> {:ok, value}
    {:error, :not_found} -> wrap_error Nebulex.KeyError, key: key
    {:error, reason} -> wrap_error Nebulex.Error, reason: reason, command: :fetch, key: key
  end
end
```

## Performance Considerations

### Key Generation

- Provide explicit keys in decorators when possible; avoid relying on default
  key generation.
- For complex keys, use module captures: `key: &MyModule.generate_key/1`.
- Keep captured data in decorator lambdas small; fetch large configs inside
  functions.

### Reference Keys

- Use cache key references (`:references` option) to avoid storing duplicate
  values.
- Store references in a local cache and values in a remote cache (e.g., Redis)
  for optimization.
- Set TTL for references to prevent dangling keys
- Use external references with `keyref(key, cache: AnotherCache)` for
  cross-cache references.

### Optimization

- Use `Stream` for large result sets instead of loading all data at once.
- Leverage `Task.async_stream/3` for concurrent cache operations when
  appropriate.
- Set appropriate TTL values to balance freshness and performance.
- Use `put_all/2` for batch operations instead of multiple `put/3` calls.

## Documentation Standards

### Module Documentation

- Start with a clear `@moduledoc` explaining the purpose and main features,
  except the modules using `NimbleOptions`, since they are documenting options.
- Options documented using `NimbleOptions` should provide functions to insert
  that documentation into the module docs. Therefore, it is not required to
  document an option in the `moduledoc` or in the function `@doc` if it is
  already inserted using `NimbleOptions`. For example,
  `#{Nebulex.Cache.Options.start_link_options_docs()}`.
- Options docummented using
- Include usage examples in module documentation.
- Document all compile-time options.
- Document all runtime shared options.
- Provide telemetry event documentation with measurements and metadata.
- The maximum text length is 80 characters, and you should aim to adhere to this
  limit. However, there are special cases where exceeding it is acceptable. For
  example, you may exceed the limit for a link (e.g., ["my link"](http://github.com/elixir-nebulex))
  or a code snippet that only exceeds the limit by a few characters (e.g., 1 or 2).
  If a code snippet exceeds the 80-character limit by more than 1 or 2 haracters,
  format it using the Elixir formatter.
- When you make a change to the documentation, use `mix docs` to validate it.

### Function Documentation

- Use `@doc` for all public functions.
- Include `@typedoc` for all custom types.
- Provide examples in function documentation using doctests when applicable.
- Document all options with descriptions and default values.
- Group related functions using `@doc group: "Group Name"`.
- The maximum text length is 80 characters, and you should aim to adhere to this.
  limit. However, there are special cases where exceeding it is acceptable. For
  example, you may exceed the limit for a link (e.g., ["my link"](http://github.com/elixir-nebulex))
  or a code snippet that only exceeds the limit by a few characters (e.g., 1 or 2).
  If a code snippet exceeds the 80-character limit by more than 1 or 2 haracters,
  format it using the Elixir formatter.
- When you make a change to the documentation, use `mix docs` to validate it.

### Code Comments

- Avoid obvious comments; code should be self-explanatory.
- Use comments for complex algorithms or non-obvious business logic. Use a
  sigle `#` for code comments. E.g., `# My comment ...`.
- For separating sectionn in a module, use `##`. E.g., `## API`,
  `## Private functions`, etc.
- Mark internal functions with `@doc false` or `@moduledoc false`.
- Use `# Inline common instructions` followed by
  `@compile inline: [function_name: arity]`.
- The maximum text length is 80 characters, use multiple lines if the comment.
  exceeds the limit.

## Naming Conventions

### Modules

- Adapter modules: `Nebulex.Adapters.*` (e.g., `Nebulex.Adapters.Local`).
- Cache modules: `<App>.Cache` or `<App>.<Context>Cache`
  (e.g., `MyApp.Cache`, `MyApp.UserCache`).
- Behaviour modules: `Nebulex.Adapter.<Feature>` (e.g., `Nebulex.Adapter.KV`).

### Functions

- Use descriptive function names: `fetch/2`, `put/3`, `delete/2`, `has_key?/1`.
- Bang versions: `fetch!/2`, `put!/3`, `delete!/2`.
- Private helpers: prefix with `do_` (e.g., `do_fetch/3`, `do_put/7`).
- Predicate functions: suffix with `?` (e.g., `has_key?/1`, `expired?/2`).

### Variables

- Cache instance: `cache`.
- Adapter metadata: `adapter_meta`.
- Options: `opts`.
- Keys: `key` or `keys`.
- Values: `value` or `values`.
- TTL: `ttl`.

## Code Organization

### File Structure

- Main cache API: `lib/nebulex/cache.ex`.
- Adapter behaviour: `lib/nebulex/adapter.ex`.
- Adapter implementations: `lib/nebulex/adapters/<adapter_name>.ex`.
- Cache features: `lib/nebulex/cache/<feature>.ex`.
- Decorators: `lib/nebulex/caching/decorators.ex`.
- Mix tasks: `lib/mix/tasks/<task_name>.ex`.

### Module Grouping

- Keep related functionality together (e.g., all KV operations in `Nebulex.Cache.KV`).
- Use nested modules for options, helpers, and internal implementation details.
- Separate public API from internal implementation.

## Common Pitfalls to Avoid

- **Do NOT** use decorators on multi-clause functions without proper wrapper
  functions.
- **Do NOT** forget to validate options at the beginning of functions.
- **Do NOT** return inconsistent error types; always use tuples or raise
  exceptions via bang functions.
- **Do NOT** capture large data structures in decorator lambdas.
- **Do NOT** forget to handle `nil`, boolean, and edge case values in tests.
- **Do NOT** use `cache_put` and `cacheable` decorators on the same function.
- **Do NOT** forget to evict cache references when using `:references` option;
  use TTL or explicit eviction.
- **Do NOT** implement adapter callbacks without proper error wrapping.
- **Do NOT** skip telemetry support in adapter implementations.
- **Do NOT** use pattern matching in test assertions when the full value is
  known.

## Backward Compatibility

- Maintain backward compatibility when adding new options (use default values).
- Deprecate old APIs before removal; provide migration path in documentation.
- Follow semantic versioning strictly: major version for breaking changes.
- Test against multiple Elixir and OTP versions in CI.

## Dependencies

- Keep dependencies minimal and well-justified.
- Prefer standard library solutions over external dependencies.
- Use optional dependencies for non-core features.
- Document all dependencies in README with their purpose.
